---
layout: post
title: Day 4 - The Basics of Vulkan
brief: We come in peace
date: 2018-09-16 11:00:00 -0500
tags : c++, daily, vulkan, shader
summary: The code that surrounds the render is just as important as the final show.
---

## Links
- [Main Repository](https://git.stabletec.com/foe-engine/main)
- [Vulkan Shader to Binary Converter (vksbc)](https://git.stabletec.com/utilities/vksbc)
- [GPUOpen Vulkan Memory Allocator](https://gpuopen.com/gaming-product/vulkan-memory-allocator/)
- [Vulkan-Hpp](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Hpp)
- [SaschaWillems' Vulkan Examples](https://github.com/SaschaWillems/Vulkan)

## Todays Goal

### Dive into the renderer, get a basic triangle program running

A bit of a failure. Rather than focussing on building just the basic triangle program, which *was* done, the focus was quickly switched into abstracting away much of the boilerplate code for Vulkan into more accessible and reusable way.

To start with, is that to bring some better type-safety to the regular Vulkan headers, was the decision to use the [VulkanHPP](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Hpp) header libraries, supported by Khronos themselves and found in most distribution's Vulkan packages. This header turns many of the basic types into slightly safer classes, with many basic boilerplate functions such as operator bool() aswell as automatically setting the `sType` for many of the structs automatically. As well, a shortcut in the form of the [GPUOpen Vulkan Memory Allocator](https://gpuopen.com/gaming-product/vulkan-memory-allocator/) is being utilized for the forseeable future, as it is a fairly low-level abstraction and Memory handling isn't quite something that I'd like to deal with yet.

Using the Vulkan-Hpp as a basis, the Instance and Device classes were extended from, and implementations for exclusively locking Queues through a QueuePool type were made. The Device class is actually a merging of the PhysicalDevice, Device, and a VmaAllocator, since they are so tightly coupled, thus initializing and deinitializing them together made a fair amount of sense. However, the QueuePool, although just as tightly coupled was split off to a different class. These contains QueueFamily objects which give out scope-locked queues for use, as Vulkan queues need to be externally synchronized, and giving access to them as unique scope locked objects makes this easiest for the end user.

For windowing, the use of the day 3 WSI library with GLFW support was done. However, the implementation of the SurfaceSwapchain2D's initialization function is currently tightly coupled with GLFW, which needs to be rethought sooner rather than later.

Finally, in the implementation of a Vulkan pipeline, the problem of shaders came about. Shaders compiled via the `glslangvalidator` utility generate fully binary files that can be used when loaded. However, loading from files, especially for basic examples or tests, or any small program is a bit discomforting. So, the use of an old utility program from earlier experimentation with Vulkan, the [`vksbc`](https://git.stabletec.com/utilities/vksbc) was resurrected, and improved. Before it would output just raw hexadecimal representations of utin32_t for pasting into code. However improvements were made today so that it could also directly output C and C++ style headers containing uint32_t arrays. Either a raw static `uint32_t[]` for C or a `constexpr std::array<uint32_t, #>` for C++. This makes it trivially easy to compile the shader directly into the program, although this comes at the cost of recompilation. of files that include it as a header.

Of note here, is that the rapid progress is mostly from looking at the example sets from Sascha Willems [found here](https://github.com/SaschaWillems/Vulkan), and that looking through them really made how Vulkan works much easier to comprehend.

## Tomorrow's Goals
- Come up with ok abstraction for Vulkan pipeline creation
- Finish the refactored triangle program
- Fix issue with updated vksbc (where variable names include the path)
