---
layout: post
title: Day 3 - Determining the next goal, as being directionless is pointless
date: 2018-09-15 11:00:00 -0500
tags : c++ daily
summary: Planning out the future is never easy.
---

## Links
- [Repository](https://git.stabletec.com/foe-engine/main)

## Todays Goals

### Figure out real project goal

Today was mostly spent determining what to actually do, with all the repository infrastructure and CI/CD in place for testing whatever comes after.

In the end, a rather boring result was determined: a loosely coupled 3D renderer. Very boring, but a challenging goal nonetheless that would challenge my programming skills for solution architecture and performance programming all at once.

With that in mind, the bare requirements become as follows:
- Uses GLFW for windowing/input
- Uses Vulkan
- Sets up rendering environment
- Renders basic meshes
- Loose to no coupling

For the most part the largest issue is trying to keep what is done loosely coupled. THe idea is to create an abstraction above the raw Vulkan API that abstracts the worse of the busywork, but not trying to create a full 'framework' where it's a complete standalone solution, so that it keeps flexibility for future more specific use cases.

### Do it

The first step was, of course, to implement a windowing solution to take in inputs from the keyboard and mouse, and otherwise output whatever would be rendered. To this end, the 'stec_wsi' library was created, that sits above the initially used 'GLFW' external library.

While the actual Window class is very thin, the KeyboardInput and MouseInput classes store a bit more information. Whereas the GLFW window provides the pressed, and released keys/buttons each frame, the wrapper classes here also keeps track of which ones are being held down until a 'released' command is received in local sets.

## Next Day Goals
- Dive into the renderer, get a basic Triangle running