---
layout: post
title: Day 2 - CI/CD Improvements
brief: Reducing tech debt before it can happen.
date: 2018-09-13 11:00:00 -0500
tags : daily
summary: Getting the build infrastructure out of the way early, to speed up the rest of the process.
---

## Links
- [Repository](https://git.stabletec.com/foe-engine/main)

## Todays Goals

### Project specific docker build images

Earlier in the day, a new repository was started [here](https://git.stabletec.com/foe-engine/build-images) which created FoE specific building images, build ontop of earlier successes of the [`build-core` images](https://git.stabletec.com/docker/build-core). 

Whereas the `build-core` images dealt with the basic build tools and compilers, the new `build images` instead created layers on top which contain the libraries that will be used by the FoE project specifically. These images built on top of Fedora, openSUSE Leap, Ubuntu, Debian and Windows.

However, the Debian images aren't being used to build the project due to the currently old compilers and libraries, with GCC being version 6.3 and Clang at 3.8. For someone wanting to use the latest C++17 standard, these compilers prove to be a bit too old.

### Get Windows docker builds working

While attempted on the [first day]({% post_url daily/2018-09-11-day-1 %}), it failed due to limitations of the Docker for Windows platform.

Making a specific image, already containing the problematic Catch library, thus not requiring a git cloning within the container bypassed this issue and allowed these builds to function again.

### Initial Code & Project Focus

Without focus, any project will quickly falter and fade away. This day didn't solve that properly. 

However, perusing some old directories, it was decided to recover a whole bunch of old code pieces, from previous posts or attempted projects, and collate them all into the first library in the new project, 'stec_misc'.

### Doxygen Documentation Build Job

Added a specific job to the 'analysis' stage of the CI pipeline that specifically builds the doxygen documentation.

This utilizes a specialized docker image that only contains the doxygen and associated programs, but without a compiler. As CMake by default expects a compiler, the root CMakeScripts.txt had a new option of `NO_COMPILE` that excludes the script sections that would attempt to compile or check for compilers.

Once complete, the job then creates an artifact of the generated data.

### Doxygen & Code Coverage Container Imaging

With artifacts from both the doxygen and code coverage jobs, a nw 'imaging' stage has been added to the CI pipeline, and a job for building individual images for both, based on the `nginx:alpine` core image.

These images quite simple return the statically generated sites, and pushed the images to the Docker Hub.

## Next Day Goals
- Figure out a real project goal
- Do it