---
layout: post
title: Using one value to share many
date: 2018-07-28 00:00:00 -0000
tags : ecs c++
summary: One of the most fundamental items in any system, software or otherwise, is to be able to identify something uniquely.
---
Being able to identify something allows one to call for something using a form of shorthand from possibly other arbitrary locations that may have little to no information of the context of what the item actually might be.

The most widely-used way of identifying people is to use either a name, social number or email. Through those three items, most individuals can be uniquely identified, even if separately each organization only has their small piece of the picture. However though these unique, means of identification, can still identify that it may be the same individual, without any other contextual information present.

Here is a basic set of requirements that have been set out here:
- Must convey an 'index' value, that may contain a very large number of items.
- IDs must belong to one of several sub-sections or 'groups' of items:
    - Core Data: Representing the bulk of starting data, typically garnered from outside sources.
    - Permanent Data: Representing data that must be preserved across different sessions.
    - Temporary Data: Representing data that is only useful for a short period of time, and is not saved across sessions. Typically intermediate items for the program to function.

In programming, every item is identified by a pointer. Many languages do abstract this away from the purview of a programmer, but down it each language's core, there is a pointer pointing at a section of data, whether on the heap or as an offset on the stack. This can often, and typically is often used as a form of unique identification, as each memory can (or should) only be allocated once. This is excellent if objects don't move about in memory, and are tightly coupled with any split off relationships to other objects. Not only that, but unless the memory is being allocated through a custom allocator, then there is no real control over the values, and thus can only represent a location in memory. Not too useful here.

Another idea is, of course, to use some sort of struct, where the information can be separated to their own concerns pretty easily. However, often due to padding or pre-set type sizes, this may not be as ideal as first believed. If trying to fit within a 32-bit space, then the options are limited to:
- 32-bit value
- 2x16-bit values
- 2x8-bit + 16-bit values
- 4x8-bit valies
Unfortunately, the 16-bit values are just a bit on the small size, storing only ~65k values, and the 8-bit valus only capable of 256 each.

Rather, the best solution, as is usually the case in programming, is to take an existing solution, and modify it to suit one's needs. Here, we're going to repurpose the plain old data type, the uint32_t (unsigned int).

By itself, the uint32_t type can only store ~4.2 billion values through the use of all of its 32 bits. But that's all of the bits. What can be done is to slice off some of those bits to represent a second set of values along with an original, if slightly smaller set.

So, say splitting along by 8/24 bits. By doing that, we can store two values in that same space, without expanding the required size beyond the integer type's original 4 bytes. One being 8 bits supporting 256 values and another 24 bit supporting ~16.7 million values.

So that means that here we can split everythong along a group/index for soem form of at-a-glance information. As an example, the group id can be used to describe  to what an entity came from or certain traits:
- 0-250 Base game data
- 251 Temporary/Synchronized: Items generated in the session that are to be synchronized when in multiplayer, but not saved across sessions.
- 252 Temporary/Local: Items generated int he session that are not to be synchronized or saved across sessions.
- 253 Permanent/Synchronized: Items that are generated in the session that persist across sessions and are to be synchronized in multiplayer.
- 254 Permanent/Local: Items generated in the session that are to persist across sessions but not multiplayer synchronized.
- 255 Program: Items for running the program, technically persisting across sessions but not session specific data. ex. handles to audio streams, windows, file handles, etc.

